---
title: "2018.07"
date: 2018-07-27T18:59:19+08:00
draft: true
---
http://www.cnblogs.com/crazylqy/p/7611069.html
https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/innodb-storage-engine.html
MySQL InnoDB 存储引擎


# The InnoDB Storage Engine


## 1 Introduction to InnoDB

InnoDB 是一个有着可靠性和高性能的通用存储引擎。MySQL 8.0 默认就是 InnoDB

#### InnoDB 的关键优势

* 使用 ACID model 的 DML 操作（带有提交、回滚、crash 恢复的事务），保护了用户数据
* 行级别锁和 Oracle 分割的一致性读提高了并发和性能
* 将数据排列在磁盘上，基于主键的查询优化，每一个 innoDB 的表都有一个主键，叫做 clustered 索引，通过主键来优化减少 IO 操作
* 为了维护数据完整，innodb 支持外键一致性，CUD 都会检查外键是否存在

#### InnoDB 的功能

功能 | 支持
--- | ---
B-tree 索引  |  Yes
Backup/point-in-time recovery (Implemented in the server, rather than in the storage engine.)  |  Yes
Cluster database support  |  No
Clustered indexes  |  Yes
Compressed data  |  Yes
Data caches  |  Yes
Encrypted data (Implemented in the server via encryption functions. Data-at-rest tablespace encryption is available in MySQL 5.7 and later.)  |  Yes
Foreign key support  |  Yes
Full-text search indexes  |  Yes (InnoDB support for FULLTEXT indexes is available in MySQL 5.6 and later.)
Geospatial data type support  |  Yes
Geospatial indexing support  |  Yes (InnoDB support for geospatial indexing is available in MySQL 5.7 and later.)
Hash indexes  |  No (InnoDB utilizes hash indexes internally for its Adaptive Hash Index feature.)
Index caches  |  Yes
Locking granularity  |  Row
MVCC  |  Yes
Replication support (Implemented in the server, rather than in the storage engine.)  |  Yes
Storage limits  |  64TB
T-tree indexes  |  No
Transactions  |  Yes
Update statistics for data dictionary  |  Yes

### 1 Benefits of Using InnoDB Tables

* 如果因为一些硬件软件原因导致程序 crash 了，不管当时数据库发生了什么，你都不需要在重启数据库后做任何操作。innodb crash recovery 将 crash 前一句 commit 的数据完成，还没有 commit 的数据撤销，只需要重启数据库就完事了
* innodb 存储引擎维护了一个在主存中缓存访问过的表和索引数据的 buffer pool，频繁使用的数据将会直接从内存中取到。cache 支持很多数据类型
* 如果你将相关的数据分开放在不同的表，你可以设置外键指向这个表，删除或者更新数据，也会自动的删除或更新关联的表。尝试插入一个 secondary 表，其中对应的 primay 表数据存储在，将会自动的 kick out
* 如果磁盘或者内存中的数据 corrupted 腐败了，checksum 机制可以爆出错误，在你使用之前
* 当你使用为每个表设计主键的时候，在 WHERE , ORDER BY , GROUP BY 和 join 中使用它们将会非常快
* 插入，更新，删除将会使用一个叫做 change buffer 的机制自动优化。innodb 实际上并不允许对于同一个表的并发读或者写，it caches changed data to streamline disk I/O.
* 性能优势并不仅仅局限于大表和长运行时间的查询，当访问一个表的同一行的时候，adaptive hash index 会优化他
* 可以压缩表和相关的索引
* 创建和删除索引，with 更少的性能和可用性影响
* Truncating a file-per-table tablespace is very fast, and can free up disk space for the operating system to reuse, rather than freeing up space within the system tablespace that only InnoDB can reuse.
* The storage layout for table data is more efficient for BLOB and long text fields, with the DYNAMIC row format.
* You can monitor the internal workings of the storage engine by querying INFORMATION_SCHEMA tables.
* You can monitor the performance details of the storage engine by querying Performance Schema tables.
* You can freely mix InnoDB tables with tables from other MySQL storage engines, even within the same statement. For example, you can use a join operation to combine data from InnoDB and MEMORY tables in a single query.
* InnoDB has been designed for CPU efficiency and maximum performance when processing large data volumes.
* InnoDB tables can handle large quantities of data, even on operating systems where file size is limited to 2GB.

### 2 Best Practices for InnoDB Tables

* Specifying a primary key for every table using the most frequently queried column or columns, or an auto-increment value if there is no obvious primary key.
* Using joins wherever data is pulled from multiple tables based on identical ID values from those tables. For fast join performance, define foreign keys on the join columns, and declare those columns with the same data type in each table. Adding foreign keys ensures that referenced columns are indexed, which can improve performance. Foreign keys also propagate deletes or updates to all affected tables, and prevent insertion of data in a child table if the corresponding IDs are not present in the parent table.
* Turning off autocommit. Committing hundreds of times a second puts a cap on performance (limited by the write speed of your storage device).
* Grouping sets of related DML operations into transactions, by bracketing them with START TRANSACTION and COMMIT statements. While you don't want to commit too often, you also don't want to issue huge batches of INSERT, UPDATE, or DELETE statements that run for hours without committing.
* Not using LOCK TABLES statements. InnoDB can handle multiple sessions all reading and writing to the same table at once, without sacrificing reliability or high performance. To get exclusive write access to a set of rows, use the SELECT ... FOR UPDATE syntax to lock just the rows you intend to update.
* Enabling the innodb_file_per_table option or using general tablespaces to put the data and indexes for tables into separate files, instead of the system tablespace.
* The innodb_file_per_table option is enabled by default.
* Evaluating whether your data and access patterns benefit from the InnoDB table or page compression features. You can compress InnoDB tables without sacrificing read/write capability.
* Running your server with the option --sql_mode=NO_ENGINE_SUBSTITUTION to prevent tables being created with a different storage engine if there is an issue with the engine specified in the ENGINE= clause of CREATE TABLE.

### 3 Verifying that InnoDB is the Default Storage Engine

两个命令

```plain
mysql> SHOW ENGINES;

mysql> SELECT * FROM INFORMATION_SCHEMA.ENGINES;
```

## 2 InnoDB and the ACID Model

ACID model 是一个保证重要数据可靠性的数据库设计规则。innodb 符合 ACID model 的设计，不会导致数据有问题

The ACID model is a set of database design principles that emphasize aspects of reliability that are important for business data and mission-critical applications. MySQL includes components such as the InnoDB storage engine that adhere closely to the ACID model, so that data is not corrupted and results are not distorted by exceptional conditions such as software crashes and hardware malfunctions. When you rely on ACID-compliant features, you do not need to reinvent the wheel of consistency checking and crash recovery mechanisms. In cases where you have additional software safeguards, ultra-reliable hardware, or an application that can tolerate a small amount of data loss or inconsistency, you can adjust MySQL settings to trade some of the ACID reliability for greater performance or throughput.

The following sections discuss how MySQL features, in particular the InnoDB storage engine, interact with the categories of the ACID model:

* A: atomicity.    原子性
* C: consistency.  一致性
* I:: isolation.   隔离性
* D: durability.   持久化

### Atomicity

原子性

涉及到 innodb 的[事务](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.7/en/glossary.html#glos_transaction)

* Autocommit setting. / 自动提交
* [COMMIT](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.7/en/commit.html) statement. / commit
* [ROLLBACK](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.7/en/commit.html) statement. / rollback
* Operational data from the INFORMATION_SCHEMA tables.

### Consistency

一致性

inodb 内部程序保护了数据的一致性

* InnoDB [doublewrite buffer](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.7/en/glossary.html#glos_doublewrite_buffer).
* InnoDB [crash recovery](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.7/en/glossary.html#glos_crash_recovery).

### Isolation

隔离性

The isolation aspect of the ACID model mainly involves InnoDB transactions, in particular the isolation level that applies to each transaction. Related MySQL features include:

* [Autocommit](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.7/en/glossary.html#glos_autocommit) setting.
* SET ISOLATION LEVEL statement.
* The low-level details of InnoDB [locking](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.7/en/glossary.html#glos_locking). During performance tuning, you see these details through INFORMATION_SCHEMA tables.

### Durability

The durability aspect of the ACID model involves MySQL software features interacting with your particular hardware configuration. Because of the many possibilities depending on the capabilities of your CPU, network, and storage devices, this aspect is the most complicated to provide concrete guidelines for. (And those guidelines might take the form of buy “new hardware”.) Related MySQL features include:

* InnoDB doublewrite buffer, turned on and off by the innodb_doublewrite configuration option.
* Configuration option innodb_flush_log_at_trx_commit.
* Configuration option sync_binlog.
* Configuration option innodb_file_per_table.
* Write buffer in a storage device, such as a disk drive, SSD, or RAID array.
* Battery-backed cache in a storage device.
* The operating system used to run MySQL, in particular its support for the fsync() system call.
* Uninterruptible power supply (UPS) protecting the electrical power to all computer servers and storage devices that run MySQL servers and store MySQL data.
* Your backup strategy, such as frequency and types of backups, and backup retention periods.
* For distributed or hosted data applications, the particular characteristics of the data centers where the hardware for the MySQL servers is located, and network connections between the data centers.

## 3 InnoDB Multi-Versioning


## 4 InnoDB Architecture


### 4.1 Buffer Pool

buffer poll 将经常访问的数据和索引保存在内存中，以加速访问。为了高容量读操作，buffer poll 是一个[pages](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.7/en/glossary.html#glos_page)的链表，通过[LRU](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.7/en/glossary.html#glos_lru)算法将旧数据排出。

### 4.2 Change Buffer

The change buffer is a special data structure that caches changes to secondary index pages when affected pages are not in the buffer pool. The buffered changes, which may result from INSERT, UPDATE, or DELETE operations (DML), are merged later when the pages are loaded into the buffer pool by other read operations.

Unlike clustered indexes, secondary indexes are usually nonunique, and inserts into secondary indexes happen in a relatively random order. Similarly, deletes and updates may affect secondary index pages that are not adjacently located in an index tree. Merging cached changes at a later time, when affected pages are read into the buffer pool by other operations, avoids substantial random access I/O that would be required to read-in secondary index pages from disk.

Periodically, the purge operation that runs when the system is mostly idle, or during a slow shutdown, writes the updated index pages to disk. The purge operation can write disk blocks for a series of index values more efficiently than if each value were written to disk immediately.

Change buffer merging may take several hours when there are numerous secondary indexes to update and many affected rows. During this time, disk I/O is increased, which can cause a significant slowdown for disk-bound queries. Change buffer merging may also continue to occur after a transaction is committed. In fact, change buffer merging may continue to occur after a server shutdown and restart (see Section 14.21.2, “Forcing InnoDB Recovery” for more information).

In memory, the change buffer occupies part of the InnoDB buffer pool. On disk, the change buffer is part of the system tablespace, so that index changes remain buffered across database restarts.

The type of data cached in the change buffer is governed by the innodb_change_buffering configuration option. For more information, see Section 14.6.5, “Configuring InnoDB Change Buffering”. You can also configure the maximum change buffer size. For more information, see Section 14.6.5.1, “Configuring the Change Buffer Maximum Size”.

#### Monitoring the Change Buffer

```sql
mysql> SHOW ENGINE INNODB STATUS\G
```

```plain
-------------------------------------
INSERT BUFFER AND ADAPTIVE HASH INDEX
-------------------------------------
Ibuf: size 1, free list len 0, seg size 2, 0 merges
merged operations:
 insert 0, delete mark 0, delete 0
discarded operations:
 insert 0, delete mark 0, delete 0
Hash table size 4425293, used cells 32, node heap has 1 buffer(s)
13577.57 hash searches/s, 202.47 non-hash searches/s
```

### 4.3 Adaptive Hash Index

The adaptive hash index (AHI) lets InnoDB perform more like an in-memory database on systems with appropriate combinations of workload and ample memory for the buffer pool, without sacrificing any transactional features or reliability. This feature is enabled by the innodb_adaptive_hash_index option, or turned off by --skip-innodb_adaptive_hash_index at server startup.

Based on the observed pattern of searches, MySQL builds a hash index using a prefix of the index key. The prefix of the key can be any length, and it may be that only some of the values in the B-tree appear in the hash index. Hash indexes are built on demand for those pages of the index that are often accessed.

If a table fits almost entirely in main memory, a hash index can speed up queries by enabling direct lookup of any element, turning the index value into a sort of pointer. InnoDB has a mechanism that monitors index searches. If InnoDB notices that queries could benefit from building a hash index, it does so automatically.

With some workloads, the speedup from hash index lookups greatly outweighs the extra work to monitor index lookups and maintain the hash index structure. Sometimes, the read/write lock that guards access to the adaptive hash index can become a source of contention under heavy workloads, such as multiple concurrent joins. Queries with LIKE operators and % wildcards also tend not to benefit from the AHI. For workloads where the adaptive hash index is not needed, turning it off reduces unnecessary performance overhead. Because it is difficult to predict in advance whether this feature is appropriate for a particular system, consider running benchmarks with it both enabled and disabled, using a realistic workload. The architectural changes in MySQL 5.6 and higher make more workloads suitable for disabling the adaptive hash index than in earlier releases, although it is still enabled by default.

In MySQL 5.7, the adaptive hash index search system is partitioned. Each index is bound to a specific partition, and each partition is protected by a separate latch. Partitioning is controlled by the innodb_adaptive_hash_index_parts configuration option. In earlier releases, the adaptive hash index search system was protected by a single latch which could become a point of contention under heavy workloads. The innodb_adaptive_hash_index_parts option is set to 8 by default. The maximum setting is 512.

The hash index is always built based on an existing B-tree index on the table. InnoDB can build a hash index on a prefix of any length of the key defined for the B-tree, depending on the pattern of searches that InnoDB observes for the B-tree index. A hash index can be partial, covering only those pages of the index that are often accessed.

You can monitor the use of the adaptive hash index and the contention for its use in the SEMAPHORES section of the output of the SHOW ENGINE INNODB STATUS command. If you see many threads waiting on an RW-latch created in btr0sea.c, then it might be useful to disable adaptive hash indexing.

### 4.4 Redo Log Buffer

The redo log buffer is the memory area that holds data to be written to the redo log. Redo log buffer size is defined by the innodb_log_buffer_size configuration option. The redo log buffer is periodically flushed to the log file on disk. A large redo log buffer enables large transactions to run without the need to write redo log to disk before the transactions commit. Thus, if you have transactions that update, insert, or delete many rows, making the log buffer larger saves disk I/O.

The innodb_flush_log_at_trx_commit option controls how the contents of the redo log buffer are written to the log file. The innodb_flush_log_at_timeout option controls redo log flushing frequency.

### 4.5 System Tablespace


### 4.6 InnoDB Data Dictionary


### 4.7 Doublewrite Buffer


### 4.8 Undo Logs


### 4.9 File-Per-Table Tablespaces


### 4.10 General Tablespaces


### 4.11 Undo Tablespace


### 4.12 Temporary Tablespace


### 4.13 Redo Log


## 5 InnoDB Locking and Transaction Model


## 6 InnoDB Configuration


## 7 InnoDB Tablespaces


## 8 InnoDB Tables and Indexes


## 9 InnoDB Table and Page Compression


## 10 InnoDB File-Format Management


## 11 InnoDB Row Storage and Row Formats


## 12 InnoDB Disk I/O and File Space Management


## 13 InnoDB and Online DDL


## 14 InnoDB Startup Options and System Variables


## 15 InnoDB INFORMATION_SCHEMA Tables


## 16 InnoDB Integration with MySQL Performance Schema


## 17 InnoDB Monitors


## 18 InnoDB Backup and Recovery


## 19 InnoDB and MySQL Replication


## 20 InnoDB memcached Plugin


## 21 InnoDB Troubleshooting

