---
title: "2018.07"
date: 2018-07-30T17:21:34+08:00
draft: true
---


# InnoDB Locking and Transaction Model

为了实现高性能的代码，理解`InnoDB` locking 和 `InnoDB` transaction 非常重要

## 1 InnoDB Locking

描述了 `InnoDB` 所使用的 lock 类型

### Shared and Exclusive Locks

`InnoDB` 实现了两个标准的 row-level 锁：[shared (S) locks](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.7/en/glossary.html#glos_shared_lock) and [exclusive (X) locks](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.7/en/glossary.html#glos_exclusive_lock).

* A shared (S) lock permits the transaction that holds the lock to read a row.
* An exclusive (X) lock permits the transaction that holds the lock to update or delete a row.

如果对于 row `r` 有一个事务 `T1`，这个时候又有一个请求对`r`添加事务 `T2`

如果 `T1`是 shared (S) lock 的，那么

* `T2`可以立即获得一个 shared (S) lock
* `T2`不能立即获得一个 exclusive (X) locks

如果 `T1`是 exclusive (X) locks 的，那么

* `T2`不能立即获得一个 shared (S) lock
* `T2`不能立即获得一个 exclusive (X) locks

### Intention Locks

InnoDB supports multiple granularity locking which permits coexistence of row locks and table locks. For example, a statement such as LOCK TABLES ... WRITE takes an exclusive lock (an X lock) on the specified table. To make locking at multiple granularity levels practical, InnoDB uses intention locks. Intention locks are table-level locks that indicate which type of lock (shared or exclusive) a transaction requires later for a row in a table. There are two types of intention locks:

An intention shared lock (IS) indicates that a transaction intends to set a shared lock on individual rows in a table.

An intention exclusive lock (IX) indicates that that a transaction intends to set an exclusive lock on individual rows in a table.

For example, SELECT ... LOCK IN SHARE MODE sets an IS lock, and SELECT ... FOR UPDATE sets an IX lock.

The intention locking protocol is as follows:

Before a transaction can acquire a shared lock on a row in a table, it must first acquire an IS lock or stronger on the table.

Before a transaction can acquire an exclusive lock on a row in a table, it must first acquire an IX lock on the table.

Table-level lock type compatibility is summarized in the following matrix.



### Record Locks

### Gap Locks

### Next-Key Locks

### Insert Intention Locks

### AUTO-INC Locks

### Predicate Locks for Spatial Indexes

## 2 InnoDB Transaction Model


## 3 Locks Set by Different SQL Statements in InnoDB


## 4 Phantom Rows


## 5 Deadlocks in InnoDB

